So when we talk about like, okay, cool,
I just showed you a whole bunch of code we
programmed for a little bit and
we looked at automation.
What is the point?
The point is, we need to create tools and
functionality that help us do
what we need to quickly, right?
Why are we using Pulumi?
Because it's cool, no.
I mean, it is cool, but no,
that's not why we are using it.
We are using it so
that we can lean on the language to create
well-defined interfaces for our resources.
We're leaning on it so that we can
then also create those resources in
a language that gives us a lot
of flexibility with for loops,
or composing, and things like that,
abstraction, right?
And another reason why we're doing
this is we have that reusability with
components where I can essentially say,
all right, well, I have a standard for
how frontends should look.
And anytime I change that standard,
every frontend should get that update.
It's not about, this frontend should
get it or, this frontend shouldn't.
It's about a standardization and
saying, all right, well,
all right, I'm a developer,
again, I need a new frontend,
this is the way we do it, right,
not you go and create it yourself.
And yeah, that's really, again,
from a service directory
perspective kind of how this looks.
If we wanted to get more in depth
into this, what would we do?
We just create more resources and
services, right?
So we've solved for frontend, right?
How would we solve for backend?
New file backend.ts.
How would we solve for gateways?
New file gateway.ts.
You could just keep doing this,
this is a convention that you can
keep leaning on over and over again.
So, that if we go, ooh,
that's the wrong VIM.
If we go to backend, right,
go back to frontend,
we can again just reuse
almost the whole thing,
and then just literally do replace bucket.
Actually, no, sorry.
Replace frontend with backend.
And now we're already taking steps
towards automating our backends as well.
Maybe our backends need buckets,
maybe they need some other things.
So for example, if we wanted to
compare a frontend versus a backend,
right, we said that a frontend needs a
container, right, container of some sort.
So when we talk about automating things,
we really wanna talk about
automating everything as much as
humanly possible, so that the developer
has the right expectations when
they leave this automation.
So in this sense of a backend,
what we would wanna do is we would want
a new resource probably for
maybe an ECR repository, right,
maybe something that we could
put our images in, right?
Now, we talked about how
a frontend has buckets,
well, a backend is gonna have
those same types of resources.
And so again,
just like we did with the bucket,
we can then take all this even if
we wanted to, go to ECR repository,
paste it, and then just get rid of all
the stuff that's not related, right?
So let get rid of all this.
There we go.
And then we can even say ecrName, which is
interesting because if you think about it,
we're literally just reusing the same
component for the most part, but
changing some of the names with it.
And so
we'll change bucket to EcrRepository.
Or if we wanted to generalize this, so
we weren't vendor locked in, we could
actually just say, DockerImageRepo,
or DockerRepo or something like that.
And this is something I would suggest,
don't name things based off of
the cloud provider you have,
mostly because you're kind of locking
yourself in without even realizing it.
If you try and
keep things named simply what they are,
it's easier to move those
things around especially.
And what I mean by that is say, for
example, we're like, all right,
you know what,
we're gonna use ECR for now.
So let me just go grab the ECR
thing cool though here.
UCR and then repository.
Copy this.
And then now it's up to you,
again, with anything,
you can put components and
components if you want.
For now, I think this is
the only thing we really need for
the ECR repository anyways, so I'm just
gonna use this main component here.
And if we do import from
Pulumi AWS like such, right?
I'll do ECR.
Now, we have the ability to
create our ECR repository.
So get rid of this,
again we already know we've got name, so
we just do our exact name
here to scan on push true.
Maybe we don't want to have scan and
push enable,
maybe we don't wanna have to pay for
that extra or something like that.
And maybe we wanna have
more optimization or
more choices around our immutability,
right?
This is where we can now lean on the DSL.
Is it immutable, right?
Sure, cool, things like that.
We won't need public, right?
So we can get rid of that.
Yeah, okay, cool.
And so now what we'll do
is we will say Name, yeah,
its name, cool, ecrName like that.
Now, I'm not gonna
actually do this exactly,
can anyone tell me why I wouldn't
wanna put the stack name on
an ECR repository or
basically on a docker image name?
So basically, it's because docker
has the ability to use tags, right?
So if we created the repository like this,
then that means
we'd actually be doing docker
pull my image.dev: latest, right?
And you could do that if you wanted to,
you could totally do that.
A better way of approaching this might
simply just be to do my image and
then dev, right, and
have that as an actual tag.
So that's just something to note here,
and that's actually what I'm gonna
change about this is, sometimes naming
conventions work and sometimes they don't.
Depending on the software
technology you might be using,
they may not suggest it to all be in
the same word or something like that.
And so
being aware of that can just help you,
also making sure you're
using the technology, right?
Because if you did it this way, you'd
have four repositories, or three, or two,
or whatever, for
the same source code, right?
And when you do a docker push, you
really just wanna push to one place and
then pull from one place.
So yeah, so we're gonna do that.
So we're actually gonna
get rid of that one and
we're gonna say resourceName like this and
we don't need stack anymore, right?
So we'll save this, get rid of that,
and I think that's about that.
So now if we go to backend, what do we do?
Well, we just grab our front image repo.
Right, and
we do the same thing we did before.
Name: args.Name.
Product: args.products.
Cool, so now, if I go to index,
and somebody was to say, well, hey,
Eric, not only do I have a frontend, but
I need a backend that
supports that frontend.
Services, and look at this,
do you notice that I'm only
importing services in the main file?
That's purposeful,
because we have a layer of construction or
an order of construction when
we create these resources.
The developers only mess with
the components we create, right?
We mess with the components inside of the
components that they create, all right.
And so that's why here developers
should only need services,
I need a new service of a specific type,
right?
So now if we were to say,
example DevOps course,
what's cool is we can actually use
the same names even if we wanted to.
Now I will say this, if you have resources
that will conflict on some level,
then of course,
you will get that confliction.
So be aware of that.
But if your goal is just to be
able to have the same name for
your backend that matches your frontend,
you could still do that.
So now if we do up.
Okay, what's wrong with this?
There's something wrong with this,
and I've already explained it.
What might be missing here?
Look at the resources and
how they're stacked.
>> Stack things.
>> I miss, what's that?
>> Stack.
>> Yeah, well, not the stack, but
what was the other thing I did to
make sure that they were grouped together,
started with a p?
>> Or the public privacy?
What are you talking about?
>> No.
>> It's like,
what are you talking about?
[LAUGH]
>> Parent.
>> We need this again.
>> I didn't set the parent, so
because I didn't set the parent, this
is what I mean by the JavaScript of it.
JavaScript will just see everything
on the same top level and go, cool.
And if you don't catch that,
and then you hit yes,
you're gonna have to recreate everything.
So yeah, you really wanna catch
how it structures those things so
that you do have that good isolation.
So now if we go back to our backend,
backend, I should see, yep,
there's no parent this here.
Okay, but apparently, it didn't see
that change, that was so weird.
Okay, so we'll go here and
then we'll just say parent this.
And I actually caught it twice,
we didn't do it here either.
So not only did we do it or
we missed it on the top layer,
we also missed it on
the component inside of it.
Now, if we do this, there we go.
So we'll see here that I actually
got rid of a whole frontend,
I don't need it anymore.
So it gets rid of the bucket,
gets rid of the component as well
as the main service component.
And then it also says that, well,
we need to create a backend,
right, and it's gonna have,
what's it called, an ECR repository in it.
Okay, another thing I wanna kinda
point out here is the names.
You'll notice that the DevOps course
example has literally the exact same name
as the frontend, right?
The one we already made,
that one's getting deleted, but
the first one has DevOps core example.
Just a guess,
can anyone tell me why we can have
a backup resource with DevOps example and
a frontend resource for DevOps course?
No guesses?
>> Is it they're different resources?
>> Yep, that's it, you nailed it.
Yeah, components are isolated
to their resource types.
So, what you can do,
just like with Terraform, for example,
is you can have a bunch of different
resources with the exact same name.
And it can spread across, okay,
well, this is the backend for this,
this is the frontend for this,
this is this and this, and you don't
have to uniquely name everything.
The only time you actually have a conflict
is when you have a same resource with
the same name.
So you can lean on naming convention
at a high level to say like, okay,
the backend and
the frontend have the same name but
they use different resources and
stuff like that.
So I hit this.
Another thing to note,
Pulumi always creates first.
It always creates first because creation
normally is the first thing you want
to do and then delete something.
And so what it'll do is it'll
create replacements and
then delete those old ones as well.
However, if it's a circumstance
where it's a conflict,
sometimes you have to
manually delete it and
then run it again because it's trying to
create something that already exists.
So now, if we go here.
What do we have?
Well, okay, I have a frontend, I know
I have a frontend in my automation so
what should I have?
I should have a bucket.
There it is,
devops-course-example-dev, cool.
And then if I go to ECR.
I should have a repository.
And if we go down, keep going.
There it is, devops-course-example.
So what does this mean?
What does this mean?
Well, it means that the developers
literally only had to add a few lines of
code, they can start pushing
up images if they need to,
they can start putting files and buckets.
And it not only can they put files and
buckets,
but the hosting is already set up.
So they can literally
put files in buckets and
immediately access those buckets over
the Internet if they needed to, right?
If I was a backend developer and I wanted
to start pushing up images for docker,
I already have my repository
sitting here ready for me, and
I can easily just start
using my AWS credentials.
This is also something
we do at my company,
where we do everything through AWS
policies and things like that.
So the main ideas is that we
create these resources, and
then we have granular permissions
that are attached to them, so
that if you're a developer,
you can modify but not delete.
You know what I mean?
If you're an admin, then you can delete.
And again, because this is
such a low level thing, right,
if I wanted to make sure that every
backend docker image repo got those
same permissions, I just have to do
it in one place right here, right?
And again, when we talk about scale,
if I have 300 backends and
I wanna make it so that the policy on
all those backends have essentially
the exact same rights, or
permissions, or things like that.
This is the power of using automation like
this and being able to simply make small
little changes and then it goes out
everywhere, you know what I mean?